you're listening to a teaching from Reality LA.
All right, well, last week was Vision Sunday for us.
It was a really big day for us as a church.
We talked about how in 2026, our vision is for everyone to be on mission with Jesus.
And there are three goals that we have throughout this year to come.
And let's engage the essentials, rebuild for renewal, and then share the gospel.
And in terms of the essentials,
There are four essentials for being involved in the church in a healthy way as disciples, and then everything else that we do is recommended for deeper discipleship.
And so here are the four essentials just to remind you of this, to gather on Sundays, to engage the discipleship pathway, to be involved in Christian community, and to serve in some capacity.
And listen, this is not like rules for being a good Christian, and we're not gonna police you on this and shame you if you're not above 75%.
Now, this is just us trying to give clarity on what healthy involvement looks like.
These are not boxes to be checked, they're gifts to be received, and our goal this year is to get as many people doing these four things as we can.
So, before we continue with the book of Acts, we're going to pause that to do a short four-week sermon series on these essentials.
And so today, I'm going to kick it off by preaching on Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 25, and talking about gathering on Sundays.
Now, I want to start off by telling you about a discovery that Harvard's School of Public Health recently made that could have profound implications for human flourishing.
Across multiple large-scale studies, they found that one simple practice is consistently linked with better mental, emotional, and physical health.
One professor even called it a miracle drug because not only is it incredibly healthy for you, it's for free.
And so what is it that the Harvard research discovered?
Well, Tyler Vanderwheel is the director of the Human Flourishing Program at Harvard, and he says this.
The good news is that this miracle drug, regular church attendance, is already in reach of most Americans.
In fact, there's a good chance it's just a short drive away.
That's right, Harvard's School of Public Health has done significant research that shows that regular church attendance is likely to significantly improve your mental, emotional, and even physical health.
And this isn't just talking about being a religious person or this is talking about going to church, being with religious people consistently.
Here's just a sample of the data that they came up with.
I mean, this is legit stuff.
These are like peer-reviewed scholarly articles, all kinds of research.
I mean, Tyler Van Der Wiel leads the whole thing.
He's got degrees from Oxford and Harvard.
But here's some of what they discovered.
Weekly church attendance is associated with a 30% decrease in depression, about an 80% lower risk of suicide, and 33% lower risk of death overall.
And if you don't believe me, look it up.
I mean, it's all there.
You can read the research yourself.
I've read several of the articles.
Or you could read Rebecca McLaughlin's new little book, Summarizing Much of This Research titled, How Church Could Literally Save Your Life.
She says this, study after study has shown that people who attend religious services once a week or more are happier, healthier, and longer lived than those who don't.
Now, of course, this doesn't mean that going to church means that you'll never be depressed, be suicidal, or be sick, okay?
It doesn't mean that.
But it does mean that there are mountains of data showing that you're much less likely to experience those things if you regularly attend church.
Now, the Bible has been saying this for literally thousands of years.
So thank you, Harvard, for noticing it, okay?
But here's the thing, we don't gather primarily for physical or even psychological payoffs.
We gather for worship and to connect with one another as brothers and sisters in Christ.
And we believe that we're whole integrated beings, so it's actually not surprising that what's good for our soul is also good for our mental and physical wellbeing.
But the problem is, is that there are lots of people who call themselves Christians who just don't go to church.
And although there's been a recent uptick, church attendance has been in decline for decades in America.
And more recent studies show that even the average church goer now only goes to church twice a month.
And then, of course, some people say they're Christians and they don't go to church at all.
In fact, one survey showed that only 35% of Americans believe that attending worship services constitutes an essential part of being a Christian.
35%.
That means that 65% think that gathering with the church is unnecessary or optional as followers of Jesus.
Okay, so that's national data on this on church attendance,
How are we doing as a church family on this?
Well, last week we did a survey where we asked, how many times a month you gather with the church?
And so here are the results.
What you'll see here is that 8% said one time per month, 10% said twice a month, 12% said three times a month, and then 70% said that they gather every week unless they're sick or out of town.
Okay, yeah.
It's encouraging.
So, I mean, let me say, first of all, to those 70%, like, man, praise God, that's awesome.
You're doing it.
You're sacrificially committing and gathering with the body of Christ every Sunday.
That's awesome.
And for the 30%, whether you're coming once or twice or three times a month or coming occasionally, I want to invite you today into what Scripture says is a gift of being able to be together with the church and be formed over time in that.
So, I mean, those are kind of the, that was like my initial take on seeing this, but then as I thought about this data more, I realized something because we only did this survey over one Sunday.
We clearly have something going on here called sampling bias, okay?
So here's what I mean, okay?
People who answered once a month, that's probably only one fourth of the people who come once a month, right?
And then people who answered twice a month, we only got half of them to be involved in that survey.
So in other words, our sampling size was skewed towards people who are actually here every week.
So I asked chat GPT to be a statistician for me, okay?
And to weight the data accordingly, and here's what it told me, that basically, that about 50% of the people are here every week, and then 50% come occasionally, 50%.
So this is really important for us.
And let me, I just want to be as clear as I can out the gate on this.
I'm not trying to shame anyone here, okay?
You're here today, praise God.
I'm so grateful that you're here.
You're here, okay?
I'm literally preaching to the choir today about gathering on Sundays, okay?
So I'm not here to shame you, but I am here to invite you into something.
And this is important for us.
And so whether you're here every week,
You show up every once in a while, or this is your first Sunday.
We all need to understand what's so significant about gathering together every Sunday as God's people.
And so to learn about that, we're gonna look at Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 25.
So let me read this passage for us, and then I'll pray that God would speak to us through it.
Hebrews chapter 10, starting in verse 19.
Therefore, brothers, since we have
confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain that is through his flesh.
And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with the true heart and foolish errands of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.
Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised his faithful.
And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day drawing near.
This is God's word, pray with me.
God, it is such a privilege for us to be able to come together
to worship you, to hear your word preach, to the receive of the Lord's Supper, to spend time praying, to fellowship.
God, what a privilege.
And we just want to say thank you.
We pray that in this time that you would use your word to help us to see the riches of this and what we have.
Lord, we're mindful of the fact that brothers and sisters in Christ have been doing this for generation after generation.
and that literally right now, and while we were sleeping last night all over the world, Christians were gathering together to worship, to sit under your word, to fellowship.
Some of them, many of them actually, I'm doing that in fear of their life for gathering.
And so we thank you that we have the privilege to be able to do this, God, and we pray today that
that we would be able to understand the significance of what's happening in this moment, but more than understanding it, that we would experience it.
Something special.
Your manifest presence, maybe experience it in a unique and powerful way together.
And then would you help us to be a people who are formed by week in, week out, gathering to worship you?
We pray this all in your son's name, amen.
Amen.
All right, so this is a passage that has a simple but really powerful structure to it.
So what I mean by that is what you have in Hebrews 10 verses 19 through 25 is you have one gospel indicative and then three moral imperatives that follow from that.
Now,
If you slept through English class in high school, let me explain what an indicative and an imperative is, okay?
And to do this in the context of scripture.
An indicative is a declaration of what God has done for you.
It's a type of verb, it's a declaration, whereas an imperative is a command for how you are now called to live.
And the order of how you understand the indicative and imperatives of scripture means everything.
Because every other system in the world says, do this, and then you'll be accepted.
So it leads with imperatives.
You need to do this, you need to do that.
And then maybe God will love you.
And so it's gonna say love other people, and then God will love you.
Be merciful to others, and then God will be merciful to you.
But the gospel says you are accepted, therefore live this way.
It leads
with the indicative, a declaration of what God has done, and then calls us how to live in light of that.
So the gospel says, you are loved, therefore love others.
You are forgiven, therefore forgive others.
I mean, you actually see this structure even in the Ten Commandments.
The beginning of the Ten Commandments
If you go back to Exodus chapter 20 is where it says, God says, I'm the Lord your God who brought you out of slavery in Egypt.
That's the indicative.
I've redeemed you.
Therefore, and then he gives 10 moral imperatives, commands.
Therefore, this is how you live in light of what I've done for you.
So that's going to change the entire way that you think about Christianity and read the Bible.
Some of you came in here today thinking, it's commands, and if I obey those commands, then God loves me and maybe will save me.
And I'm saying, it's the opposite.
It's gospel.
God loves you.
He's for you.
He saves you by grace.
And then he gives us commands.
So that's what's going on here in Hebrews chapter 10.
We have one major indicative, this gospel declaration upfront, and then three imperatives that flow from it about how we live.
So first of all, let's look at the gospel indicative.
This is in verses 19 through 21.
Says, therefore brothers, reminding us here that we're talking about the church as family, therefore brothers, since we have confidence to enter into the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain that is through his flesh, and since we have a great priest over the house of God.
So pause right there.
That's the indicative.
The declaration here is that the blood of Jesus was shed on your behalf so that you can enter into God's presence, not with fear, but with confidence.
It's beautiful.
This means that your greatest problem has already been solved.
I mean, I know that we all have problems in our lives and you're worrying about stuff and maybe you don't know how you're going to pay rent or how you're going to deal with this situation at work or you've got this relationship or you've got a physical ailment, like we've all got problems in our lives.
But this declaration is saying sin is our greatest problem and your greatest problem has already been solved.
because Jesus has dealt with it by going to the cross in our place, bearing our sin.
This is a declaration that by the grace of God and his son Jesus, that we are reconciled to God.
And if you read this in the context of the book of Hebrews, this is the theological summit.
Everything the author has been arguing leads here that Jesus has offered the final sacrifice.
He's opened the way and secured our reconciliation once and for all.
It is finished.
That is the one indicative, this declaration of good news.
And then from it, flow three imperatives.
But before we get to those imperatives, you got that?
I mean, please, you can't skip over that.
I'm like, yeah, but tell me what to do.
Like, no, no, no, no.
That's not how we do things.
Okay, like you need to do this.
You need to obey these rules.
No, we understand the gospel.
We understand it in our heads.
It grips our hearts and then it shapes every aspect of our lives.
So from this gospel indicative, you have these three imperatives and the structure is actually really obvious in the text because each one of these starts with the phrase let us.
So in verse 22, let us, in verse 23, let us in 24, let us, all of this we're doing in light of the fact that Jesus has shed his blood and made a way for us to enter into the presence of God.
So three imperatives that flow from the gospel, the first in verse 22 is, let us draw near to God.
Look with me at verse 22, it says, let us draw near,
with a true heart and full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.
So, I mean, this is all building on this gospel declaration, you've been washed, you've been given a new heart, and God has drawn near to you.
And so our response is, let us draw near to him.
Let us realize that this
that He is our greatest good.
There's nothing better than being in the presence of God.
There's nothing better than being in relationship with God, where you know Him and He knows you.
You know that you're never alone because He's always right there.
But I want you to notice that it's saying that we need each other to draw near to God.
See, your temptation would be
Let us draw near to God and for you to think that it's just talking about all of us as individuals, maybe doing that at the same time.
But no, this is communal to the core.
We need each other to draw near to God.
And so there are weeks when your faith feels strong and there are weeks when it doesn't.
And in those moments, you don't just need to draw near to God yourself.
You need to draw near by sitting next to someone who's still singing when you don't feel like singing.
You draw near by hearing someone else pray when you don't have the words.
You draw near by watching someone else hold on to hope when you feel like yours is thin.
Let us draw near to God.
That's the first imperative based on this good news that's declared.
The second is this, let us hold fast to the end.
Look at verse 23, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering for he who promised is faithful.
So the book of Hebrews is actually written to a group of people who are on the verge of giving up.
They were wavering in their faith, their grip was loosening on hope, and many were drifting from Jesus and the church.
And God's word for them is to hold fast.
Don't let go.
Don't give up.
Indoor faithfully to the end.
And that's God's word for us today.
I know that some of you are weary.
Some of you are wavering.
Some of you right now are on the verge of giving up.
And I want to plead with you.
Look to Christ.
Hold fast to Him.
Don't give up.
Persevere until the end.
But you're not going to be able to do this based on your own strength.
Remember,
a command that's based on the declaration of what God has done for us.
And he reminds us of that in verse 23, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering.
Why?
For he who promised is faithful.
Your endurance will not be because of your faithfulness, but because of his faithfulness in your life.
And you're going to persevere, not by looking within, but by looking to him, the faithful one.
He is the one who started a good work in you and who will bring it to completion.
And so hold fast.
But once again, it doesn't just say, hey, individual, hold fast.
He says, Christ has opened the way for us.
Let us hold fast to the end.
Once again, this is communal.
We need each other to persevere until the end.
We need each other.
You can't stray away from the group.
That's when you will start to wither.
In fact, I think about when our kids are a little bit younger, we used to watch all the planet Earth episodes that were out.
There's never ending planet Earth series.
We would watch those because the kids loved it.
We loved it.
There's a pattern that I noticed that kind of surprised me in watching how animals work.
And it is that I thought that when you would have a fight between two animals, that you would have the strongest lion of the pack and the strongest wildebeest of their pack.
And they would fight and the lion would win, of course, because he's the king.
But actually, it really doesn't work that way at all.
And I remember watching Planet Earth.
some scene like this.
It's like, oh, look at that wildebeest.
Oh, he's limping.
Poor thing.
He's got a hurt leg, but that's okay.
He's with a pack.
They're like surrounding him, right?
And you're like, and then the lions come.
And it's not the male lions, they're sleeping under a tree.
The female lions go hunting.
And no, the female lions, they don't go and find the strongest wildebeest.
Like, let's get some honor out of this kill.
Like, no, what do they do?
They scare the wildebeest and they all start to run off.
And they look for the one that's limping who goes off on the side.
And I'm watching with this with my kids.
They think the world is a great place.
And then all of a sudden it's like, why are they going for the one that's limping?
And before you know it, this pack of lions is just ripping this wounded wildebeest into pieces.
And my kids are crying, right?
And this isn't just a one-time thing.
It's like the next scene is like, look at that pack of elephants.
Oh, look at the baby.
It's so cute.
And then it's like, you see it happening.
You're like, no, no, no.
Baby, I don't stray from the pack.
You've got to stray from the pack.
And then they go for the baby every time, right?
So here I tell you the story for this reason.
You can't stray from the pack.
If you want to endure till the end, you've got to stay with the pack.
Some of you are really young in your faith and you need to stick with older brothers and sisters in Christ.
You need spiritual mothers and fathers in your life.
You've got to stay with the pack.
Some of you are wounded right now.
You're hurting and you think, I'm just going to go off on my own for a little bit and try and heal myself up so I can get back.
You've got to stay with the pack.
This is the only way that we are going to endure to the end.
That's why it says, let us hold fast to the end.
All right, the third command then that it's gonna give us based on this gospel declaration is let us stir up one another to love.
Look at verse 24.
It says, and let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works.
I just love this imagery of stirring up.
beautiful imagery of what it looks like for us to be a loving community.
And just imagine with me for a moment that I had a big bag of cement powder right here.
And then I had a big bucket of water right here.
Now, with those two things separate, they're completely useless, okay?
Big bag of cement powder, water.
I mean, they're not helping much on their own.
But if you mix them together,
then something amazing starts to happen.
If you mix them together and you start to stir them up, you literally have chemical reactions that are taking place that are creating new bonds.
And in fact, what happens is it creates something altogether new since they've been stirred up and it creates something that's cohesive and useful and helpful.
Well, that's exactly how love works.
You've got some people here, and you've got some people there.
But when we come together, love catalyzes good works, stirs us up, and we become a part of something, a community that's far greater, where the sum is far greater than just the total of the parts.
It's like there are chemical reactions happening.
when we serve each other, when we encourage each other, when we speak the truth to one another, when we pray for one another.
And all of that binds us together stronger than cement.
And so you need each other.
You need the people who are sitting around you right now.
You need others in your life who will stir you up to love and good works.
And you need to stir up others to love and good works as well.
You can't do this on your own.
And so let me just review what we've seen in this passage.
You have this gospel indicative, a declaration of what God has done for us in Christ because his blood was shed on the cross.
The way has been opened and we can enter into the throne room of God, not with fear, but with confidence.
And then based on this gospel declaration, we have three imperatives, three commands.
These commands flow from this new reality of being in Christ.
Let us draw near to God.
Let us hold fast to the end.
Let us stir up one another to love.
But if we keep reading, there's one thing that it says not to do.
So we've got the gospel.
We've got three commands of things that we ought to do in light of the gospel, but then one thing that it says absolutely don't do this.
And so what is it?
It must be really important if there's only one thing that it says not to do while we read in verse 25, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of son.
Now, there are a variety of ways that we meet together as Christians, but the heart of that is gathering on Sundays.
And so I wanna zoom in on this phrase, meet together and unpack the significance of the Sunday gathering.
What's going on here?
What's happening when we come together on Sundays for worship?
Well, the word in the original Greek here for meet together literally means to assemble.
We're in assembly.
So we don't use the word assembly too often, you might think about it in a school context.
where everyone's off in their own classrooms doing their different things, but when they have an assembly, they all come together.
Or here's another way that you could think about this.
Imagine a bicycle that's disassembled, okay?
So if you have a bike that's disassembled, you have all the different parts, like imagine a pile of bike parts.
You've got the tire and then you've got some spokes and some pedals and there's the handlebars and the chain.
the seat, but it's all just a pile.
And because it's disassembled, it's not useful.
It's not functioning.
It's not doing what it was meant to do.
But when the bike is assembled, when everything comes together and functions in its proper role and its relation to everything else, then the bike can do what it's meant to do.
Well, when we assemble as the church on Sundays, it's a time for us to come together in all of our differences, our gifts, our experiences, our backgrounds, and to rejoice in our unity in Christ.
With one voice, we exalt Christ in song.
As one people, we sit under the authority of God's word, and as one family, we receive the Lord's Supper together.
And technically speaking, we don't go to church,
we are the church and we gather for worship on Sundays.
So the church is not an event or a place, the church is a family.
In fact, here's my one sentence definition of the church.
The church is a family of sinners who are being redeemed by grace, who are led by qualified leaders, who gather for worship and scatter for mission to the glory of God.
That's what a church is.
And so gathering isn't just something that we do, it's at the heart of who we are.
So if that's what church is, not an event, not a place, but a family gathered by grace, then the question becomes, what should our gatherings actually be like?
What should mark us when we come together on Sundays?
Well, I wanna show you based on scripture, seven characteristics of the Sunday gathering.
These are seven marks of a Sunday gathering in the New Testament church that I think can shape us right here in Los Angeles.
And I wanna do this.
So like it says in Hebrews 1025 that we can not give up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing.
So first, the Sunday gathering is sacred.
Sacred.
When the Bible talks about
God's people gathering, it assumes that something extraordinary is happening.
God is present with His people and in a unique way.
I mean, God's present everywhere and He's with us all the time, but when we gather on Sundays together, He's with us in a unique and powerful way.
And this right here is not just a group of people choosing to be in the same room at the same time.
This is a people being summoned by God.
And what makes this gathering different is not the music, the message, or the mood.
It's the presence of God.
So if what you want is the buzz of a crowd, you can go to a Kendrick Lamar concert.
If you're looking for wisdom, you can go to a lecture at Caltech.
If you want to discover yourself, you can go on a retreat into Panga.
If you want community, you can find it on apps like Meetup.
All of those things have their place.
But what we experience here is something different.
This is not just collective energy.
It's the fellowship of the Holy Spirit.
This is not just insight.
It's divine encounter.
This is not entertainment.
It's worship.
This is not just social connection.
It's communion.
We're not just exchanging ideas.
We're coming into the presence of a living God.
This gathering is sacred, not because of the building or the people, but because God has promised to meet with His people when they assemble in His name.
Amen?
This gathering is sacred.
So next, the Sunday gathering is communal.
We are not alone and this reminds us of that.
And we need to understand this because for us oftentimes our default is individual private spirituality.
And then we think of the church as something that we tack on to our individual private spirituality to kind of help us be more well-rounded.
And so it's easy for us to think of the Sunday gathering in that sense.
But what we learn in the scriptures is that the order is actually the opposite.
The core of who we are is that we are a family of God, brothers and sisters in Christ.
Our core identity is communal.
And then how we understand our individual spirituality flows from that.
And so when we gather on Sundays, this just isn't another event that you add on to your individual week.
This is the fountainhead from which everything else flows.
We proclaim the gospel.
We respond in worship and rejoicing in the glory of God at the top of our lungs in the heart of this city.
And then everything flows out of that place of we are a people who have been called to God and who worship God.
And so this is all deeply communal.
And the gathering is not individuals who come to watch a service.
It's a family who bring an offering to God.
Next, the Sunday gathering is embodied.
We gather to meet face to face.
Now, in the New Testament, obviously they met in person.
They didn't have digital options for that.
But that's not the only basis of the argument of the embodied nature
of the gathering of the church and the New Testament.
I mean, what you see happening in the church gathering is receiving of the Lord's Supper.
I mean, that's at the heart of the gathering.
There's nothing more tangible, something that engages your taste and your smell and your touch.
And we do that together.
And it's not only the Lord's Supper, it's greeting one another.
For them, it was a holy kiss for us as a handshake, fist bump, a hug, whatever appropriate way it is to greet one another.
Physical touch is important for that.
But when we come together, our voices join together to make something that's different, all combined, and we would be separately.
And so in our disembodied age, we need to embrace the embodied communal spirituality that God has called us to.
We do have a live stream, but I wanna be clear.
You can't gather with the church online.
You can watch a gathering online, but that's different.
You can't participate in it the way you can when you're here in person.
And listen, there are valid reasons for using the live stream.
If you're sick, if you're traveling, if you've taken care of sick kids at home, anything like that.
But otherwise, our hope is that we would gather
together, communally embodied.
You don't just need content.
You need connection.
And the live stream is not a replacement for in-person church.
It's a supplement that's meant for people who are sick or traveling or they're shut-ins.
And so, man, if you're watching on the live stream right now, we love you.
I just want to extend an invitation for you to gather on Sundays.
We need you here and you need us.
And I want to say that, again, I'm not trying to shame anyone.
Some of you might be listening and thinking, yeah, but what about this?
Or what about my situation there?
Or I've got these things from the past.
We would just love to talk to you about that too.
We don't want you to be separated.
So consider the embodied nature of the Sunday gathering.
Next, the Sunday gathering is participatory.
Church is not a performance to watch.
It's not.
Colossians 3.16, it says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly teaching and admonishing one another, Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs.
It's this picture of gathering together and we're bringing something.
We're contributing.
We give and we receive.
I think one of the problems with the way that people engage with church and with Sunday gatherings today is that consumerism has deeply plagued the church.
People come to church like customers consuming a product and then leave the review on Yelp afterwards.
And listen, there's a place for feedback, okay?
But what I hope for people is that they come with a mindset of I'm not a spectator, I'm a participant.
I'm a family member who's gathering with my family to praise our father and to encourage one another.
You're not a consumer.
You're a contributor.
That's what it means to be a disciple.
Next, the Sunday gathering is consistent.
So you see this develop throughout the scriptures.
In the Old Testament, there's a pattern of God's people coming together.
In between the Old Testament and the New Testament, you have something called the synagogue that developed.
They had this because they didn't have the temple.
And so they would come together and they would read scripture and they would teach on it and they would worship.
That really formed the basis of what would start happening in the gatherings of the church and the New Testament.
But what you see in the New Testament, and especially throughout the book of Acts, is it talks about the church gathering on the Lord's day as the first day of the week.
So this goes all the way back to Jesus rises on Sunday, and then he meets with his gathered disciples.
Pentecost happens on a Sunday.
The spirit falls on his gathered disciples.
And then throughout Acts, the church begins to gather on Sundays.
And Sunday was not the Sabbath.
The Sabbath was from Friday night to Saturday night.
The church started gathering on Sundays because that's the day that Jesus rose from the dead.
They would gather to worship the resurrected Christ, to remember what He's done for them, and to dwell in His presence by the Spirit.
And so the point is that throughout the New Testament,
They didn't gather for worship when they felt like it or when they felt they needed it or they didn't have anything else going on.
They gathered every Sunday on the Lord's day because that's what God called them to do.
So we establish a rhythm with the consistency of it.
Next, the Sunday gathering is formation.
This is so important.
I mean, in Hebrews 10, 25, it says, let us not give up meeting together as is the habit of some.
So habits,
are really important in shaping your character and your soul.
And our character is shaped the most in life, not by the big out-of-the-norm events, but rather by the things that we do repeatedly day in, day out, week by week.
You could learn that from Aristotle, or you could learn it from James Clear's atomic habits.
It's January, so I'm assuming some of you just read it.
Great book.
But what you're gonna learn from those is that your habits form your loves.
The little thing is that you do repeatedly in your life or what's going to shape you as a person overall.
And so when it comes to church, it's not the one epic church service here or there that will shape you the most.
It's the week to week gathering with the saints that will form your heart and your character over time.
It's not only about gathering with the church every week.
I mean, that's my hope is that you have a long-term vision of discipleship where you're being conformed into the image of Jesus, and you see that gathering with the church on Sundays is a key part of shaping you over decades with that.
Every week, it's chiseling away your sinful nature and conforming you more and more to the image of Christ.
It's not only just about coming to church, it's about what we do every Sunday in these gatherings.
So every element of our gatherings is meant to form us as disciples of Jesus.
The call to worship reminds us that God initiates the relationship and we respond.
The public reading of scripture trains us to listen to God's voice above all.
Prayer teaches us dependence, not self-sufficiency.
The offering loosens our grip on money and retrains our trust in God.
Passing the peace or the meet and greet, as we often call it, forms us into a reconciled people, not just spiritual individuals.
The preached word re-orients us around God's truth, not the stories of this world.
Communion reminds us that we live by grace, not by earning.
And corporate worship shapes our loves, teaching us what is truly worthy of praise.
And then lastly, the benediction sends us out with God's presence, not just with good intentions.
And so Sundays are a key part of your discipleship, the way that you are becoming more and more like Jesus over time.
And then lastly, the Sunday gathering is missional.
So we don't gather on Sundays to avoid mission.
Our goal is not to be an insular community that comes together and builds walls and never goes out and engages with the world.
No, remember what I said, what it means to be the church?
We gather for worship and we scatter for mission.
So we gather, but then we gather to be sent out.
I love the way that Leslie New began to put it.
The church is not meant to call men and women out of the world into a safe religious enclave, but to call them out in order to send them back as agents of God's kingship.
I love that.
We gather together.
It forms us.
It trains our hearts, and then we are sent out a salt and light in this world.
And if you gather, but you don't scatter, then you would just be an exclusive community, or an exclusive community.
If you gather and you don't scatter, we become self-absorbed, blind to the brokenness around us, and we wouldn't fulfill Jesus' call to go to the nations.
But if you scatter and you don't gather, then you would be a fragmented movement.
We would lose our center,
We would no longer have a community to invite others into, and we'd become isolated and burned out.
When we gather and we scatter, we are a family on mission with Jesus.
That's what the church is.
And when we are rooted in the church, then we could branch out in seeking the flourishing of our city.
So these are seven characteristics of the Sunday gathering.
And this should go without saying, but let me just
Say it explicitly, is that the Sunday gathering is an important part of the Christian life, but it is not the whole of the Christian life.
I'm emphasizing it today because that's what I'm preaching on, okay?
And there are some Christians who are like Sunday only Christians.
They're like amening everything I'm saying right now, and then they don't do anything for Jesus throughout the week, okay?
So we don't wanna be Sunday only Christians, but we also don't wanna be no Sunday Christians.
was like, yeah, I just follow Jesus.
I just, you know, me and God, I got in nature.
I don't need the church.
Like, well, the problem is Jesus is telling you that you need the church.
So if you say you only need Jesus, then you're going to end up needing the church as well.
So we don't want to be Sunday only Christians.
We don't want to be no Sunday Christians.
We want to be faithful Christians who gather on Sundays, that's a fountainhead, and then we live out
of the beautiful truths that we're celebrating here together on Sundays.
Now, I just want to give you three practical invitations here because I've been laying out the significance and the meaning of the Sunday gathering.
Three really practical things.
One is to gather on Sundays every week, to commit to that, to prioritize it, to plan things around it.
to say, I'm going to come when I feel like it and I'm going to come when I don't feel like it.
So that's the first.
It's just gather on Sundays every week.
Second is, come not as a consumer but as a family member.
Don't come just asking the question, what am I going to get out of it?
That's not bad.
We need to receive in a lot of ways.
But also, how can I give?
Who can I reach out to?
Who can I pray for?
Who can I bless today?
So come not as a consumer but as a family member.
And then third, bring someone else along with you.
I mean, maybe there's people that you have in your life who have never been to church.
They're probably just super curious.
Like, what's it like?
Oh, you guys let other people come.
Like invite people who have never been to church.
Also, invite people who say they're Christians or maybe they have been a part of a church and they're no longer.
There's a lot of studies out there that the narratives we assume are often wrong.
There's 40 million people
who have stopped attending church over the last 25 years.
And what studies show is that the majority of those people are actually very open to coming back if somebody invites them.
And so let's be a people who say, hey, we're going to church on Sunday, you wanna come with us, right?
So invite other people with you.
But I wanna close by coming back to where we started with this beautiful gospel indicative.
You see, everything that I've said today about what we're called to do about gathering, about commitment, about rhythms, all of that flows from what God has already done for us.
And so before we've, before we ever gathered to him, he gathered us to himself.
Before we ever drew near to God, he drew near to us.
Before we ever held fast to him, he felt held fast to us.
Before we ever loved him, he loved us.
Before we ever showed up,
Christ showed up for us.
And so we're not here because we're disciplined or consistent people or impressive people.
We're here because Jesus shed his blood to draw us near to God.
Because he opened the way, because he reconciled us to the Father, because he made us a family.
That's why we gather.
And my hope is that we wouldn't take this for granted.
but that we love gathering on Sundays, and we'd be formed by gathering on Sundays, and we'd commit to gathering on Sundays to the glory of God.
Pray with me.
God, we thank you so much that you have called us to yourself and to one another.
And so Lord, we are so grateful that you know our frame, you know that we're weak, and you've given us this.
You've given us the body of Christ, and you've given us this rhythm.
of coming together on Sundays to share a meal in the Lord's Supper, to hear your words spoken to us through the Scriptures, to lift our voices in song, to feel your presence through the presence of brothers and sisters all around us.
And so, God, we pray that as we come together every week and proclaim your word, retell the story of the gospel, that you would do a deep formative work in our hearts,
And as we proclaim Christ publicly, we pray that you would draw many more to yourself and to your family, the church.
We pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.